Today, we'll be showcasing Tlacuache.
It's a Mesoamerican themed city builder
and management sim with rich historical
details and mechanics that lets you rise
from a humble settlement to a sprawling
metropolis.
I actually discovered this game a year
back in early access and love playing
it. It's made by a small but passionate
team inspired by the Impression city
builder series. So, expect aesthetics
similar to Caesar 3 with the mechanics
of Caesar 4 and Banished mashed up
together and even some grand strategy
elements.
Now, the game is having a full launch on
April 2nd and I couldn't be happier to
share it with you all.
Thanks to Paradox Arc for sponsoring
this video.
So, from the get-go, the beautiful menu
art sets the right vibe. The
Mesoamericans had absolutely amazing
cities with massive temples, aqueducts,
universities, zoos, and much more that
all too often gets overlooked. So, it's
about time their civilization got a
proper city builder game.
To showcase Tlacuache, we're going to
have a first look at the game modes,
then explain the basic mechanics, and
then dive into a quick play through to
get a feel for things.
So, from the top, you'll be starting off
with the tutorial. It offers a guided
experience with step-by-step
instructions on the basics.
Along this road of progress, you can
drive the whole way yourself or jump
between preset development milestones.
It's a nice way to ease into the game
that progressively expands out the scope
of what's possible to build and manage.
After this tutorial, you might want to
check out the other scenarios. These
switch up the game biomes, resource
availability, neighboring factions, and
more.
For extra replayability, you can spin
the wheel for a random map based on key
variables you control or even choose the
map editor to create something specific
for your experience.
With the full launch, you now also have
access to a historical campaign.
It traces the rise of the Mexica people
who would go on to form the main leg of
the Triple Alliance, which we commonly
refer to today as the Aztec Empire.
Part one sees you take on the role of
the underdog, hobbling from place to
place doing the bidding of others, like
cleaning up after floods and tending to
their construction needs. It's a really
chill start that lets you focus on just
basic tasks without the complexities of
city management.
Soon though, you start to stand on your
own two legs.
You expand a fledgling settlement,
scraping by just enough to meet your
needs and pay tribute to the greater
powers of the region.
However, these neighbors get greedy,
imposing ever harsher tribute demands
until you ultimately rise up to throw
off their yoke.
At the end of the campaign, it's now on
you to wield your own strength to raise
an army and set off to sack or force
into submission all who stand in your
way.
But how does this all work?
Let's now hop into one of my sessions to
see.
So, here we are with a settlement that I
built. It's probably early to mid-game.
And yeah, let's use this as a
demonstration of the basic gameplay loop
for Cwatl 1E. The first thing to see is
that while the art style itself is
beautiful isometric with little sprites
for the characters, you can go ahead and
click on individual people, all sorts of
bonds, traits about them, where they
work, who they are, lots of little stuff
that you can pick up here.
Uh but yeah, so in terms of what's going
on here, obviously you can see the map,
different types of biomes and
vegetation. You can then check the
overlays for all this stuff. So, for
instance, the fertility of your terrain
or what's been irrigated or not. Looking
more specifically, things like beauty
matter, what's the ambiance of your
settlement, how is the security of it,
you know, when you get into army, what's
crowding look like, uh how are your
diversions for these sorts of things
that keep people entertained. Lots of
different things you can do to really
show the mechanics going on.
Uh but yeah, so that's kind of the map
and ways to interact with the overlays.
Then in terms of construction and city
building, what do you want to do? Well,
the basic resources up here are going to
be your food, so like maize, timber,
clay, stone, and then over here are
slaves in the future. You can get those
from uh raids, etc. So, yeah, these are
your major basic uh resources, and then
gold, which you can use to
uh sort of trade with your other
factions and try and get more stuff. So,
for instance here, if I go into the map,
here is Xochimilco, that's me, but I
can, you know, trade with my neighboring
partners, I can spend my gold to get
some of these resources, either the raw
ones or the produced ones or more
advanced ones, and I can have negotiated
trade and all that stuff. So, a lot
going on here, but that's basically your
resources up here and how it interacts
with gold.
For instance, right now, if I thought
that I was spending way too much money,
what I could do is go to my trading
post, and I could say, "Hey, we are done
trading clay. So, let's go ahead and say
no trade for clay." Or, I could actually
flip this on the other side and say,
"Well, actually, we have a bunch of clay
that we just built here in Lex Let's
export it." So, that is the basic stuff.
But, um that's import-export. If I
wanted to actually collect the natural
resources, I want to tap into the
surroundings. So, one thing I might want
to do, for instance, would be go down to
industry, and let's say I wanted to get
more timber, I can go ahead and build a
sawyer over here and just plop that
down, and my pops will go ahead and
start building that. And naturally, yep,
you can see, there you go. The builders
will automatically go, collect the raw
materials needed to build that, they'll
stage it, and then it just takes time to
produce. So, that can be a sawyer. If I
wanted to get more clay down here, I
could have another clay pit installed,
and then each of these things can be
then sort of upcycled into more advanced
materials. So, for instance, kilns will
go ahead and take things like timber and
the nearby clay, put it together, fire
it, and you get pottery, and then that
can be transported over to a porter
yard. So, you have your basic resources
that can that be gathered, then you can
process them and combine them together
into more advanced goods. All that stuff
then needs to be moved around to your
population, either to the sort of port
of export
or for consumption by your dwellings. In
order to move stuff around, you're going
to need what's called porters. So, these
are porter yards that you can build. And
so, if you want to have a porter yard,
for instance, it's in here, so you can
build a large one porter yard or a small
porter stop. Essentially, what that does
is it allows you to have individuals who
are then going to on in an automated
fashion go around and balance stuff,
move them around. So, porter yards are
important not just for kind of moving
goods from point A to point B, but then
also they are warehousing for stock
warehouses for stockpiling goods. So,
for instance here, this porter house is
set to get timber, so you can change the
behavior of these things. So, in this
case, get timber because I know I want
to use it for this production here, and
then accept clay and pottery from nearby
production. So, that's sort of the
balance, you know, tap into your
resources or import it, and then have
porter stations to move it around
between your places, and then slowly
kind of tech up and get more interesting
advanced goods. So, that's all about
your resources and your production.
Then your population that's making all
this stuff happen. You have different
forms of structures, so here's my
farmers huts. These are going to be the
ones who work the farms. So, in this
case, let's say I wanted to continue
this and have a mirror of what's going
on. Uh let's go ahead and just put pop
one down here, so I can have a farmer,
and then if I want to have some goods
that he produces here, I can have some
maze fields that he might have to grow.
Each one has like a cap of 32 plots of
land and will have a mix, so we'll have
him do some chili in this case, and then
perhaps some fruit trees and close that
off. So, that's essentially how you
would get your farms going. You build
these out. The pops will come in here,
you'll grow it, and then you'll want to
water this over time. So, that's that
basic one. Uh the other type of housing
you might want is your commoners
housing, so that's like you're seeing up
through here. Again, we'll do the same
thing where we'll just pop some of these
down.
So, those are built and then eventually
as these have their needs met, as you
can see here, the home needs pottery.
That's why we ended up building pottery
facilities down here. So, as those get
met, people will be happy, and then
eventually this uh household will get
upgraded over time and be able to hold
more capacity, be more productive, etc.
So, that's me building that stuff out.
Uh in terms of what do these key people
care for? Well, they care that they are
in a safe neighborhood, something with
entertainment, that takes care of the
water, etc. So, for instance, you have
different facilities that you might want
to do. Uh, over here a sweeper that
collects night soil, which is
essentially your poop for irrigation,
sentry post for security, well dippers,
which I placed one here for providing
water. In the future, you can actually
have aqueducts. So, you're treating
yourselves to your population to a lot
of, um, necessities. Entertainment is
another good one, something they call
diversions. There's also sort of
religious structures that you have to
build. So, we have a temple that was
constructed here. I have a school that
was built here. And then eventually at
the top of the social pyramid is going
to be my noble's compound. So, I built
this here. And then to make them even
happier, I had more gardens to appear
very nice and kind of stately for them.
And the garden also has another purpose.
Not only does it look good, but a
gardener tends to those. And then of all
the stuff that's in here, I have an
herbalist who can collect sort of the
herbs and other produce from the gardens
and use that for medicine. So, it's a
really vibrant ecosystem that all piles
on top of itself.
Eventually, you can then, uh, go all the
way up to House of Eagles, House of
Mice, things like that. Barracks for
getting troops. You can have guys to
fend off raids. You can then send those
to engage in, for instance, let's say I
want to go out here and have a flower
war to get captives, improve my, uh,
standing. There's a lot you can do.
But yeah, that's basically the TLDR of
how this all plays out. You can see how
the economy stacks and gets really
exciting. And, uh, yeah, one last thing
we might do live here is going to be to
plug in our farms. You can see right now
I have my canals. Very important to keep
on top of that. And eventually what you
can actually do is, if you wanted to,
you can actually build the world famous
chinampas and reclaim a lot of this land
in certain maps. That's going to be
important. But for now, what we can do
is actually witness the sort of eventual
plugging in of my canals to supersize
and really get this growth going.
So, now finally, after many nights work,
we've completed our canal system and it
is now feeding all this irrigation going
up here and just to get a sense of it, I
can turn on the irrigation panel and
there you go. The overlay shows that we
are watering this up the wazoo, which
means we're going to supercharge our
production. So there are irrigation plus
40% yield. So that is how you do it.
There's a lot more you can do in the
game to actually, you know, dial up your
production, min-max things. So for
instance, you have royal orders sites
that you can assign to particular
buildings to do certain things, confirm
tasks there, give them, you know, tasks
to oversee the the temples or the
schools. You can then go ahead and sort
of rally troops when you have them to
send off to war. There are different
sort of imperial policies that you can
enact and you can take a look at all
these details. There's even something
that I really like, which is the idea
that over time as you're trying to
please the different gods to try and get
boons, uh you might want to build
temples, but then you can also control
the calendars, the festivals, as stuff
comes up here. What type of festival are
you going to do? Is it small, large,
grand, are you having none? So there's
really a lot to do in this game,
more than meets the eye and it is an
awesome thing. But with that being said,
we're going to go ahead and start this
scenario from scratch so you can see how
it is done.
All right, so we're going to start off
here with some humble origins of just a
garrison and a trading post. So the
first thing you want to determine is,
well, where are you going to expand?
What is the direction of your
civilization? Uh take a look around,
just scout around. What you're looking
for is probably a place to farm, place
to expand your urban center and then
probably where to get a lot of
additional raw resources. So you can do
that visually just by looking around.
You can also use this information
overlay to get a sense of things. One
thing you might want to do is toggle on
fertility. So the blue and the green is
going to be best. So it looks like
that's going to be the crux of it right
here. You might also want to look at a
deposit. So it looks like we can get
good uh stone outcroppings. That'll be
important to get stone. There's some
here. Additionally, I see that there is
like game, another thing around. So, a
lot of um kind of general pointers are
probably going to have me develop in
this direction.
So, in order to do that, uh I'll
probably start with some cheap and easy
roads, which will just kind of get me
going
uh in my cardinal directions. A lot of
this game is about kind of having
symmetry uh and good city planning. So,
in this case, I'm just going to go ahead
and do this and expand us out in uh
yeah, those major directions. And while
we're at it, we might as well make this
uh double road and have this be sort of
like our major causeways.
So, that'll be it. That'll get us
started and we'll go ahead and we'll let
our people start building that.
Uh while they're at it, what you can
also do is you want to start to probably
clear out some area to start to collect
some resources. So, what we can do is
probably just raise
some of the stuff in the nearby
vicinity. That'll help us get material.
So, automatically, you see as I start to
do these tasks, my people will go out
and start to collect things. Uh so,
build, lay out the road. They'll clear
out this forest. If I did, I could have
them clear out everything and collect
the raw resources, but I don't want to
do that. I'll just do like a little
splattering of things that they can just
clear out and then kind of bring this
home as raw materials for us.
Okay, next thing is going to be well,
what are we going to do for
construction? We're going to need
houses, we're going to need farms, and
then we're going to need some additional
infrastructure.
So, to get started for our engineering,
we probably want to build a mason yard,
which just helps you with overall
building, provides people to do upkeep
and things like that. So, let's go ahead
and have one of these
by our main area here.
And then in terms of just collecting
resources, we'll probably go ahead and
tap into
uh probably the forest up here. So,
let's go ahead and go into industry and
have a sawyer up in this direction, so
he'll start chopping down the trees and
having both of those in conjunction will
be good. And then probably in addition
to that, we'll want a little porter
stop, which um will be good for just
collecting um materials as we go. So,
we'll have a little porter yard. Um
Yeah, let's go ahead and have this here
nearby, and this thing can be a little
pool for timber.
And we'll probably end up kind of
digging into this forest and having more
of that. So, that'll help us uh kind of
get going in that direction while our
people are collecting resources and
laying out the groundwork.
Uh and we can fast forward a little bit,
so you can see
they place that material and get us
underway. As they do so, they're going
to be tapping into some of the resources
we start off with, so it's eating into
our gold bank and it's eating into our
resources. We will be getting more
resources through here because we're
importing them from our neighbors. That
is fine for now, but again, it's going
to eat into our money and um
yeah, we're going to wean us down uh
from these in the future. So, yep, first
one is probably going to be timber. We
can take that down a notch cuz we're
going to producing it internally. So,
yep, reduce timber and then eventually
we'll get into maize and reduce those.
So, yeah, let's start getting into that
next.
Uh first thing is it looks like they
keep complaining about housing and
homelessness. So, let's go ahead and
build some common people's homes. A
common pattern you'll see is probably
something like this, which is two homes,
leave a little gap, and do a third home,
leave a gap in between, and just kind of
mirror that.
And that'll be your sort of repeatable
city block. The reason for that is we
leave some gaps for some beautification
projects and additional amenities and
buildings. So, let's go ahead and now
kind of repeat that and
have that going, and we'll just kind of
bolster all that. There we go. So,
that'll be this, and then in terms of
beautification, we can have some fruit
gardens in the mix.
Yada yada.
Like this.
And then in terms of kind of creature
needs, they're going to need some more
stuff. So, one of the things they will
probably need is a sweeper. A sweeper is
someone who kind of goes around and
literally cleans up kind of the night
soil, which is your poop from your
houses, and then will distribute it to
the fields. In this case, we can go
ahead and place it here.
So, it'll have access to the road. So,
again, that's why you leave these kind
of little notches in your facilities.
And then beyond that, we will probably
have a well dipper that can service the
homes in this area. So, this one looks
good for me.
And then that is looking pretty good.
And then down here, we'll start to have
some farmland. So, you're going to want
a mix of properties, common homes houses
for people who can be sort of your
middle class, and they'll become, I
believe, like artisans as it gets
upgraded and have their needs met. And
then noble count compounds eventually
are sort of the top of the social
pyramid. But for now, we care more so
about farmers. And let's see, what do
they care here? We like timber, clay.
Place a gathering building nearby. Have
your porters get that. Okay. Yep. So,
that's this guy, and they want him to
get clay as well. Okay, cool. So, we
have that.
That will be all of assistance. And then
let's go ahead and go with the farmers.
So, the farmers will be in here. And I
think what we can do is we will just
um
do something like
probably this.
Yeah, let's do that. And then
uh
we'll
do that.
And eventually, we'll be bringing in
canals. So, I'm just trying to be a
little cognizant of this as we build it
out.
There we go.
So, that'll be our farmers huts. And
then pairing with that is going to be
our maze fields and other kind of
fruiting trees. So, in this case, what
we'll probably do is I like to sort of
beautify this by having some
kind of fruit trees on either side. And
it's often good to have a mix of
kind of goods that you're producing.
And then we can fill the center with
maze. So yeah, they're already telling
me we lack variety, which understood,
got it. We will go ahead and have some
of that. Swap some chili in the front.
And then we'll go ahead and put probably
maze through the bulk of this.
That looks pretty good and maybe we can
go ahead and actually have uh maybe some
fruit trees
interspersed in the middle. So we'll go
ahead and uh we'll undo a little bit
this and maybe have a
a little cops of trees in the center.
Keep it uh keep it visually interesting.
Cool. And then we can afford to have a
little bit of maze to round that off.
All right, there you have it. So we're
building our social structure. Again,
we're probably going to need more farms
than this, but for now this is uh enough
to make me happy. Let's see to the
amenities for these guys. So we're going
to have a sweeper, we're going to have a
well dipper, and eventually they're
going to need more stuff like security
and other diversions. But uh I'm okay
with this. So I think the balance is not
bad. We have our sawyer collecting
goods. That means yes, we can decrease
the timber imports. And potentially we
could have actually another sawyer. So
let's go ahead and yeah, have that our
first the be one of the first things
that we kind of get ourselves off of. So
let's have another sawyer. I suppose he
can get to chopping down this wood. And
eventually when he's done, we can move
that further out.
All right, so let's go ahead and let our
people get to work.
All right, looks like we've built out
most of our stuff and mood is looking
good.
Saying that they have few markets. So it
looks like that is one of the things
that people are going to want. So, as
this is going to be our urban center
going on up here, we might as well
invest in well, a little bit more stuff
to make the people happy and get
commerce popping off. So, let's go ahead
and do some of that. So, for commerce
and trade, we'll go over here and this
is where we can build a small market or
a large market. In this case, we'll
start small and just save ourselves some
resources. This thing could probably go
here to service all of the locals. And
then eventually we'll have a granary. A
granary will
sort of prevent foodstuffs from going
bad and it can just stockpile all of our
stuff. So, that is all good. And then
yeah, as we're collecting more and more
resources, we'll probably want an
additional porter yard just to help kind
of speed things up and centralize goods.
So, we'll have another one of those.
And yeah, that's a worthy thing and then
as well, we might as well start to
invest in some diversions for the people
to make them happy. So, we can go ahead
and maybe give them a little alcove in
this area.
And yeah, we'll do that. And then let's
go ahead and beautify it with some fruit
gardens.
Like that there. Great. That'll make a
nice little kind of block and then I
think what I'll probably do is I'll
close this thing off with a road.
And eventually we'll mirror something on
the other side, so that'll be nice. And
potentially we could put a sort of tax
collector at the top.
So, why don't we go ahead and have a
collector up here? This is someone who
can collect taxes. Uh
it's a little bit expensive right now,
but I suppose why not? We'll build out
our infrastructure here shortly. So,
yeah, we'll start to have a tax
collector. I think that's a good place
for it.
All right, so looking at all of this, it
looks like we are starting to run into
potentially some issues. So, let's go
ahead and look at our advisors and you
can see sort of what we're spending our
money on here if we go to the treasury
and tribute. So, big expenses, the
balance is super negative here, but now
we can increase taxes, we could probably
the biggest thing to do would be to
reduce the amount of imports that we
have. So, let's go ahead and play with
that and just
yeah, start reducing our import of clay.
I think maize, now that we have this
local production, we can wean ourselves
off of maize actually by a lot.
So, that'll help with our coffers not
being so negative. So, yeah, we're
slowly
reducing the bleeding and then
eventually we're going to want to get
some clay buildings and more stuff like
that.
But yeah, so far so good. So, I think
this is not bad. So, let's go ahead and
fast forward a little bit, let things
even out and then we'll come back and
we'll probably start doing another block
of farmhouses and residential sectors.
Sweet. So, I've now built out a whole
second area for our farmland with some
nice symmetry. I also built out some
additional
standard housing dwellings and yeah,
it's all looking good and then we
expanded down here a mason yard to help
with more construction as we probably
will get into kind of clay collection
and kiln firing and then maybe some more
construction and infrastructure down
there. So, anyways, we're teeing
ourselves up looking good, but then now
yeah, we might want to double up and
make sure that all our creature needs
are being met. So, clicking on a house
here, it looks like these homes have
everything but they need education and
they need religion. So, these are some
additional upgrades that we can probably
provide to our community
to yeah, keep it going. So, usually the
gods like things that are nice and
symmetrical. So, probably right behind
our tax building and down this main
alleyway is probably where we want to
put our major major religious building.
So, let's go ahead and do that. Lots of
different shrines and different gods
that you can do in this case, I'm going
to do Huitzilopochtli just because yeah,
I think that's appropriate and looks
like that has good symmetry and let's
pull it out a little bit there.
That'll serve as some religion and
Tlaloc is going to be one who's is to be
more about sort of the crops and so
maybe this one might warrant being
uh
where is a good place out in the middle
of all this kind of
Yeah, I guess that's kind of cool. If we
have one down by the center of all this
irrigation and
um farmland, I suppose anywhere could
work. I think this is probably good cuz
I think we'll have more
um yeah, irrigation and more houses
here. So, probably having a nice shrine
here with the good symmetry is a solid
one. Cool. So, we'll have that there and
then let's go ahead and make sure that
it is looking nice and pretty. So, we'll
have kind of some additional fruit
gardens. Make sure that the look is
happy. That looks good and then this one
over here we'll just make sure that it's
connected with some roads.
And um
yeah, let's surround our facilities.
That'll get going there. And then yeah,
so that'll make sure that uh the needs
of our people are met. And then while
we're at it, maybe we can go ahead and
start uh interesting ourselves in some
more things that people might like.
So, what do we have here? Looks like
there is uh various schools. Eventually,
we could get like actual universities
and higher ed, but for now we'll
probably just keep a simple school that
can go right here. That's decent
symmetry.
And yeah, that's not bad. Let's go ahead
and put a school there.
Cool. So, that'll keep our people happy
and then we can go ahead and toggle on
our overlays and see how things are
looking. So, ambiance is not bad. This
could be a little bit better, but that's
pretty good. Symmetry for this one is
solid. How's the mood? Most people are
happy. And what about our trip times?
Getting here and there is not bad. Down
here starts to get a little bit worse.
But overall, I would say
uh yeah, nutrition's not too good there.
So, yeah, our core is good, but again
obviously as you extend beyond your
core, you're going to have to upgrade
your facilities and do that elsewhere.
But so far, I would say so good. So
yeah, we're going to be developing
there.
Uh we could probably again reduce our
imports a little bit to make sure the
cash flow is still strong. So let's go
ahead and reduce that and maybe say,
"Yeah, and I think no trade is fair at
this point. We have enough maze
production." Timber could probably be
switched to no import no trade. Yeah,
there we go. I think we have enough
timber that we'll just hold it and
eventually we can um export it. Uh in
this case also it looks like our sawyer,
there are no nearby trees. So this is a
good showcase of the relocation. I can
grab this structure and probably push it
out either down here or up here. So he's
carving out a lot. We'll probably just
move him a little bit further down
in that direction. And uh yeah, that's
all looking good.
All right, our urban core is nicely
developed. We have our shrine to
Huitzilopochtli, and then we have our
school up and running. So that is
awesome. And then over here in the kind
of
rural area, Tlaloc will be developed and
then eventually he'll have some
accompanying structures around him. But
yeah, I think this is looking like
really good. And let's see, home needs
access to more religion. That'll rectify
itself real soon as they start using
these facilities. So yeah, a really nice
core and it probably means that uh just
about now we can start to have noble
compounds in this area.
So if you were to have one, I think this
is probably suitable right opposite of
the facility to Tlaloc, although this
may get a plaza.
But uh
Yeah, let's go ahead and have a noble
compound that kind of sits on top of all
these facilities here. I like that.
I'll do that.
And then some additional stuff we can do
for them to make them happy would
probably be more beauty and diversity.
And in this case we can do a gardener.
Gardeners are something that you can
build that then
uh they will tend to gardens, make
things really pretty, so that'll help
with the kind of beautification of this
area. And then also you can have like
herbalists and stuff get stuff from the
garden. So, a lot of good synergies can
start to be had here.
So, with our gardens, let's get that
herbalist. Probably
Yeah, we'll go ahead and have the
herbalist be on the backside of this
property. That's kind of cool. It's like
he's a Yeah, he's a
dedicated to this and he'll start to do
some like medicine stuff and treatment
for for all the folks. So, this is kind
of the the noble compound subsidizing
all this development. And uh we can
round this off and probably have a large
garden behind the school that they can
tend to. More of these.
And yeah, let's close that whole area
off. And then actually we'll probably
um
raise this just to keep it nice and
clean and finish up our roads and just
keep this all neat and organize.
And pull that out.
So, what you're seeing here is the
natural progression of your city. You
want to go slow and steady, start to
build tall, and aggrandize this social
pyramid. So, you can see emblematic, we
start off with a lot of farms, get that
food and base stuff popping. Uh and then
after that we start to build out more
commoners, their facilities. At the very
tippy-top now are the nobles. So, our
pyramid is constructed. And then now
what we can do is start to round off
more facilities and then get more uh
interesting stuff going on when it comes
to production. So, for me that probably
means uh getting down here into clay,
getting kilns going, being able to
develop pro- uh pottery. We'll probably
want a granary to start storing food
goods. And then to really kind of um
supersize all our farms and juice them
up, we'll probably connect this
irrigation all the way down here.
So, yeah, let's go ahead and take our
city to the next level.
So, as the next part of our schemes, one
thing we might want to do is uh probably
produce a granary. And we can place this
here. That'll allow us to have
stockpiles of foodstuffs.
And we'll get again kind of have this
whole thing
topped off with access to roads.
That'll be good. And then this thing we
want to make sure that it will accept
all of our food that we're producing.
There we go, meat, fish, etc. That is
all good. So yeah, granary, market,
and then down here is where we'll
probably start to get our clay so that
again we can wean ourselves off of these
sort of
expensive imports. So I think next up
will be clay. So let's do that. So we're
going to get some clay pits. These have
to be as you can see restricted to being
developed in the mud. Whole bunch of
this stuff down here.
So our avenue of production will
probably be a string of these things
here.
So there you go.
Probably start off with three of them.
And as always
build our road to connect us back to
everything going on.
That looks good. And then down here will
be our facilities. So
yeah, let's go ahead and get some kilns
going. I'll be getting a couple of these
right across from them.
Skipping ahead, you now see that in the
southwest region we have our production
pumping. We have a bunch of clay pits
which are obviously taking clay out of
this wet muddy area and then throwing it
into these kilns we can which can
produce pottery. In this area I've
upgraded to a porter yard which can now
bring all our raw materials, store
pottery, and then as that stuff all gets
put together, we then can transport that
to the market and redistribute to the
homes. These homes as they get pottery
will be considered happy and then can
start upgrading themselves to the next
level of household and on and on we go
building our social structure higher and
higher.
So at this point I think you get the
gist of the production. As you can see,
things get more complicated as you start
to get things like dentists or even more
walls and military structures. There's a
lot more to go through, but this is more
than I could build in a single session.
So, we're going to go ahead and jump
over to a pre-built map to see what a
massive city looks like. So, here's an
example of a city a little bit further
along in its development. As you can
see, there's a lot more population just
mingling about, a lot more upgrades have
been done. Each of the houses now looks
much more impressive. It's a large
house. The infrastructure is looking
greater. All the roads or at least the
majority of roads are now made out of
stone. Looking around at some of the
architecture, really some of the
monumental stuff is starting to be built
out. A temple to Tlaloc. Over here, you
can see some modest estates, a lot more
temples in the suburbs. So, just much
infrastructure and development all
throughout. And one of the things that I
particularly like is that they have
steam baths, a lot more stuff for public
hygiene that again people don't give
enough credit to them as Americans for
doing that, but they certainly had it.
And one of the big things that they had
is actually these extensive aqueduct
systems. So, in this case, you can build
these. You just have to find a natural
spring, build a cistern, and then from
there you connect the aqueduct that runs
all the way back to your city. You built
a sort of receiver cistern, and then
from there, as long as you have these
kind of stone roads connecting places,
it means that there's actually piping
running under here. So, if you go to
your overlay
and you look around for where is it?
Water supply? Yep, you can see here the
water piping through and then going
underground to these various points. And
then these structures, which used to be
well dippers, have now been upgraded
into basins. So, yeah, very impressive
stuff. And this is only just the
beginning. You know, you give it a
couple more hours of play time, more
experience, and you could see yourself
expanding and conquering and developing
upon this whole area. And even as the
Mesoamericans did, you can build
chinampas and reclaim all the way up
until much of the lakeside and make this
yours. So, I hope you guys enjoy this
game. I've been getting a kick out of
it. Again, over a year
of early access playing it and now at
full launch, I really enjoy it. So yeah,
support the creators by checking out the
link in the description and I will see
you in the next one. Enjoy.